
 Abstract 31898791


        Abstract
        
      


      
      The respiratory system plays an essential role for human life. This system (like all others) undergoes physiological regeneration due to many types of stem cells found both in the respiratory tract itself and in the alveoli. The stem cell hierarchy is very extensive due to their variety in the lungs and is still not completely understood.The best described lung stem cells are alveolar type II cells, which as progenitor lung stem cells are precursors of alveolar type I cells, i.e., cells that perform gas exchange in the lungs. These progenitor stem cells, which reside in alveoli corners, express high levels of surfactant protein C (SFTPC). Despite the fact that type II pneumocytes occupy only 7-10% of the lung surface, there are almost twice as many as alveolar type I cells occupying almost 95% of the surface.Other stem cells making up the lung regenerative potential have also been identified in the lungs. Both endothelial, mesodermal, and epithelial stem cells are necessary for the lungs to function properly and perform their physiological functions.The lungs, like all other organs, undergo an aging process. As a result of this process, not only the total number of cells changes, the percentage of particular types of cells, but also their efficiency is reduced. With age, the proliferative potential of lung stem cells also decreases, not just their number. This brings about the need to increase the intensity of research in the field of regenerative medicine.
    



          Keywords:
        
      
      Alveolar type II cells; Bronchoalveolar lung stem cells; Club cells; Lung 3D organoid culture; Lung aging; Lung development; Lung regeneration; Lung stem cells; Respiratory system; Type II pneumocytes.
    

 Abstract 32252376


        Abstract
        
      


      
      Bacterial toxins play a key role in the pathogenesis of lung disease. Based on their structural and functional properties, they employ various strategies to modulate lung barrier function and to impair host defense in order to promote infection. Although in general, these toxins target common cellular signaling pathways and host compartments, toxin- and cell-specific effects have also been reported. Toxins can affect resident pulmonary cells involved in alveolar fluid clearance (AFC) and barrier function through impairing vectorial Na+ transport and through cytoskeletal collapse, as such, destroying cell-cell adhesions. The resulting loss of alveolar-capillary barrier integrity and fluid clearance capacity will induce capillary leak and foster edema formation, which will in turn impair gas exchange and endanger the survival of the host. Toxins modulate or neutralize protective host cell mechanisms of both the innate and adaptive immunity response during chronic infection. In particular, toxins can either recruit or kill central players of the lung's innate immune responses to pathogenic attacks, i.e., alveolar macrophages (AMs) and neutrophils. Pulmonary disorders resulting from these toxin actions include, e.g., acute lung injury (ALI), the acute respiratory syndrome (ARDS), and severe pneumonia. When acute infection converts to persistence, i.e., colonization and chronic infection, lung diseases, such as bronchitis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and cystic fibrosis (CF) can arise. The aim of this review is to discuss the impact of bacterial toxins in the lungs and the resulting outcomes for pathogenesis, their roles in promoting bacterial dissemination, and bacterial survival in disease progression.
    



          Keywords:
        
      
      alveolar liquid clearance; alveolar-capillary barrier; bacterial toxins; host defense; inflammation; pulmonary edema.
    

 Abstract 15556096


        Abstract
        
      


      
      Vertebrate lungs are highly diverse in their structure, topographical position, ventilation mechanisms, constructional integration into the locomotor apparatus, and the interrelationships with the mode of their ontogenetic development. Vertebrate lungs evolved as supplementary air-breathing organs in primary fishes, being ventilated by buccal pumping. In most recent fishes the lungs are transformed into the hydrostatic swimbladder. This basic type of unicameral lungs and their buccal pumping ventilation are also found in recent amphibians. Land vertebrates developed a very efficient aspiration type of ventilation. In most recent reptiles the lungs are subdivided into three rows of lung chambers, enlarging the exchange surface in correlation to their increasing metabolic needs. The avian respiratory apparatus, with its volume-constant lungs and highly compliant air sacs, and the mammalian broncho-alveolar lung, with its very low compliance, are both derived from multicameral lungs. The avian and the mammalian respiratory systems are integrated very differently with the specific constructions of their locomotor apparatusses and the specific mode of their ontogenetic development.
    


 Abstract 28945476


        Abstract
        
      



          Rationale:
        
      
      To address the lung donor shortage, we obtained institutional review board and US Food and Drug Administration approval to transplant lungs recovered from uncontrolled donation after circulatory determination of death donors (uDCDDs).
    


          Objectives:
        
      
      To compare outcomes of recipients of lungs recovered from uDCDDs vs. brain-dead donors.
    


          Methods:
        
      
      After consent and screening, lungs recovered from uDCDDs were assessed by 4 hours ex vivo lung perfusion (EVLP) and computed tomography (CT) scan.
    


          Measurements and main results:
        
      
      Over the course of 29 months, 502 potential uDCDDs younger than 66 years were identified in a single county, with death declaration by emergency medical services and four emergency departments in this and two other countries. We determined reasons that lungs from these uDCDDs were not able to be transplanted: uDCDDs could not have lungs recovered (224), next-of-kin could not be found or refused to discuss (67), next-of-kin refused (48), medical examiner case (39), logistics/missed (35), and miscellaneous (35). There were 247 medical contraindications: 141 pulmonary and 106 nonpulmonary. Lungs were recovered from 31 uDCDDs. Thirteen lungs did not have EVLP: 5 injured lungs (one pulmonary embolism [PE] with perforated infarct, two motor vehicle crash with severe injuries, one adhesion, and one lightning strike), two large PE, two prolonged ischemic time, two obvious chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, one technical, and one consent withdrawn. Eighteen lungs had EVLP: 10 with immediate edema (three PE, three unknown down time, three long ischemic time, and one ruptured aneurysm into L pleural space, making long cardiopulmonary resuscitation ineffective), and one myocarditis, possible lung involvement. In three lungs, CT showed edema after EVLP: one poor flush and poor EVLP performance, one edema after myocardial infarction (MI) with 10-year history of chronic heart failure, and one edema with MI, resuscitated, arrested again. One concurrent pneumonia was diagnosed by bronchoscopy, CT, and cultures; one patient had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with small subpleural blebs and poor collapse, confirmed by CT. Two uDCDDs with MIs were suitable but not transplanted: no consented recipient from one large blood type B uDCDD, and the senior surgeon was unavailable to transplant suitable lungs from a uDCDD and did not allow the transplant.
    


          Conclusions:
        
      
      The objective was not met: no lungs from uDCDDs were transplanted. uDCDDs can be a source of lungs for transplant. Resolving logistical challenges and better use of first-person authorization, allowing organ recovery without next-of-kin consent or knowledge of death, could increase yield. Donor medical problems were higher than expected and may limit the effect of uDCDDs on the lung donor pool.
    


          Clinical trial registration:
        
NCT01615484.
    


 Abstract 10386226


        Abstract
        
      


      
      1. The pharmacokinetic role of the lungs has been extensively studied using in vitro preparations, but this information has not been well integrated into many systemic pharmacokinetic models. 2. The lung is characterized by short diffusion distances, extremely high relative perfusion and heterogeneous cell types. Anionic and neutral lipophilic drugs have relatively small distribution volumes in the lungs due to their low lipid content. Cationic lipophilic drugs can accumulate in the lungs, probably due to trapping in mitochondria and lysosomes, forming very slowly eluting pools. 3. Drug metabolism in the lungs is possible, but not universal. The lung, generally, has a low activity for many of the metabolic enzymes found in the liver, although this activity is relatively more inducible. The resultant drug extraction would be 'enzyme limited', variable and flow dependent. 4. Double indicator studies of first-pass lung kinetics can characterize short-term distribution in the lungs, but not longer-term distribution or metabolism; the converse applies for studies of drug concentration gradients across the lungs. No single study or model has adequately defined the short- and long-term kinetics of drugs in the lungs. 5. Drug clearance in the lungs can contribute to an apparent total body clearance in excess of hepatic blood flow and cardiac output. The lung is a first pass filter for any drug administered on the venous side of the circulation and can act as a 'capacitor' that damps the first-pass concentration peak in the blood after intravenous bolus injection.
    


 Abstract 3297175


        Abstract
        
      


      
      Morphological, biochemical and pathophysiological data on the significance of the metabolic (non-respiratory) function of the lungs in the regulation of homeostasis have been summarized. The key "strategic" position of the lungs in the blood circulation system, the concentration of a unique set of biochemical regulatory factors in the lung endothelium, as well the presence of a multiple system of nervous and humoral control ensure the realization of a specific mission by lungs as a regulator of the functional integrity of the organism. The lungs serve as a barrier controlling the passage of deleterious substances into arterial blood and consequently into the brain and other organs and at the same time the lungs are responsible for the controlled synthesis and elimination of physiologically active substances essential for the work of the same systems. These functions attain special significance under stress-induced situations as a result of homeostatic disruptions and as a consequence of grave extrapulmonary injuries. The author's concept on a compensatory function of the lung kallikrein-kinin system under extreme conditions of organism is given. This pathway opens up the prospects for search of ways of correcting functional disruption in organism.
    


 Abstract 26413517


        Abstract
        
      


      
      Using anatomical, digital, and statistical methods we examined the three-dimensional growth of the lungs in 67 human fetuses aged 16-25 weeks. The lung dimensions revealed no sex differences. The transverse and sagittal diameters and the base circumference were greater in the right lungs while the lengths of anterior and posterior margins and the lung height were greater in the left lungs. The best-fit curves for all the lung parameters were natural logarithmic models. The transverse-to-sagittal diameter ratio remained stable and averaged 0.56 ± 0.08 and 0.52 ± 0.08 for the right and left lungs, respectively. For the right and left lungs, the transverse diameter-to-height ratio significantly increased from 0.74 ± 0.09 to 0.92 ± 0.08 and from 0.56 ± 0.07 to 0.79 ± 0.09, respectively. The sagittal diameter-to-height ratio significantly increased from 1.41 ± 0.23 to 1.66 ± 0.18 in the right lung, and from 1.27 ± 0.17 to 1.48 ± 0.22 in the left lung. In the fetal lungs, their proportionate increase in transverse and sagittal diameters considerably accelerates with relation to the lung height. The lung dimensions in the fetus are relevant in the evaluation of the normative pulmonary growth and the diagnosis of pulmonary hypoplasia. 
    

